rmf-fleet-adapter python tutorial (#97)
osrf/ros2multirobotbook: src/integration_fleets_tutorial.md

- When the core RMF system has a task to dispatch, it communicates with the various fleet adapters to check which fleet is suitable for taking this task.

- It sends a request, to which fleet adapters respond by submitting their fleet robots' availability and statuses.

- RMF determines the best fleet for the task and responds to the winning bid, i.e. the fleet that is selected. The response contains navigation commands relevant to the delegated task.

- The fleet adapter will then send the navigation commands to the robot in appropriate API.

> The tutorial provided below is based on the [rmf_demos_fleet_adapter](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/tree/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter) implemented in the [rmf_demos](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos) repository. This specific implementation is written in Python and uses REST API as an interface between the fleet adapter and fleet manager.You may choose to use other APIs for your own integration.

## Fetch dependencies

```bash

pip3 install fastapi uvicorn

```

> Clone the [rmf_demos_fleet_adapter](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the [fleet_adapter_template](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template) repository.
```

# Fleet Adapter Tutorial
`fleet_adapter` acts as a bridge between the robots and the core RMF system.

Its responsibilities include but are not limited to:

- Updating the traffic schedule with the fleet robot's positions

- Responding to tasks

- Controlling the vendor robots.

  

> The `fleet_adapter` receives information (position, current ongoing tasks, battery levels etc.) about each robot in the fleet and sends them to the core RMF system to for task planning and scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fleet_adapter` receives information (position, current ongoing tasks, battery levels etc.) about each robot in the fleet and sends them to the core RMF system for task planning and scheduling.
```

  

- When the core RMF system has a task to dispatch, it communicates with the various fleet adapters to check which fleet is suitable for taking this task.

> - It sends a request, to which fleet adapters respond by sending robot availability and statuses.

Reviewer: For clarity
```suggestion
- It sends a request, to which fleet adapters respond by submitting their fleet robots' availability and statuses.
```

- RMF determines the best fleet for the task and responds to the winning bid, i.e. the fleet that is selected. The response contains navigation commands relevant to the delegated task.

- The fleet adapter will then send the navigation commands to the robot in appropriate API.

  

> The tutorial provided below is based on the [rmf_demos_fleet_adapter](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/tree/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter) implemented in the [rmf_demos](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos) repository. This specific implementation uses REST API as an interface between the fleet adapter and fleet manager. You may choose to use other APIs for your own integration.

  

## Fetch dependencies

```bash

pip3 install fastapi uvicorn

```

> Clone the  [rmf_demos_fleet_adapter](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/tree/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter)  repository.

Reviewer: I think you misunderstood my previous comment, you should direct users to clone the [`rmf_fleet_adapter_template`](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template) repo instead. The `rmf_demos_fleet_adapter` should only be used as a reference/example of how to implement an adapter.

Author: Got it.Thank You.

Reviewer: Ping

> Users can use the template and only have to fill in [`RobotClientAPI.py`](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template/blob/main/fleet_adapter_template/fleet_adapter_template/RobotClientAPI.py) to get rmf_fleet adapter running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can use the template and fill in the missing blocks of code in [`RobotClientAPI.py`](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template/blob/main/fleet_adapter_template/fleet_adapter_template/RobotClientAPI.py) marked with `# IMPLEMENT YOUR CODE HERE #`. This sets up the API between the fleet adapter and the user's robots.
```

> > The code giving below serves as an example for RobotClientAPI.py implementation. Code can be found [here](https://github.com/thedevmanek/rmf_demos/tree/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter).

Reviewer: Already linked to the `rmf_demos_fleet_adapter` repo above. Also, do note that you should link to open-rmf's repo instead of your forked one
```suggestion
> The code given below serves as an example for implementing your own fleet adapter using `RobotClientAPI.py`.
```

> ## Understanding `config.yaml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update the `config.yaml` file
The `config.yaml` file contains important parameters for setting up the fleet adapter. Users should start by updating these configurations describing their fleet robots.
```

  battery_system:
    voltage: 24.0 # V
    capacity: 40.0 # Ahr
    charging_current: 26.4 # A
  mechanical_system:
    mass: 80.0 # kg
    moment_of_inertia: 20.0 #kgm^2
    friction_coefficient: 0.20
  ambient_system:
    power: 20.0 # W
  tool_system:
    power: 760.0 # W
  recharge_threshold: 0.20 
  recharge_soc: 1.0 
  publish_fleet_state: True
  account_for_battery_drain: True
  task_capabilities: 
    loop: True
    delivery: False
    clean: False
    finishing_request: "nothing" # [park, charge, nothing]

# DeliveryBot CONFIG =================================================================

robots:
  deliverybot1:
    robot_config:
      max_delay: 10.0 
    rmf_config:
      robot_state_update_frequency: 0.5
      start:
        map_name: "L1"
        # waypoint: "charger_deliverybot1" # Optional
        # orientation: 0.0 # Optional, radians
        waypoint: null
        orientation: null
      charger:
        waypoint: "charger_deliverybot1"
reference_coordinates:
  rmf: [[20.33, -3.156],
        [8.908, -2.57],
        [13.02, -3.601],
        [21.93, -4.124]]
  robot: [[59, 399],
        [57, 172],
        [68, 251],
        [75, 429]]
```

  

> - `rmf_fleet` information about the fleet and the bots in the fleet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `rmf_fleet` important fleet parameters including vehicle traits, task capabilities and user information for connecting to the fleet manager.
```

> - `fleet_manager` prefix, username and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `fleet_manager` the prefix, user and password fields that can be configured to suit your chosen API. These parameters will be brought into `RobotClientAPI.py` for you to set up connection with your fleet manager/robots. 
```

- `limits` maximum values for linear and angular accelerations and velocities.

> - `profile` footprint and vicinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `profile` radius of the footprint and personal vicinity of the vehicles in this fleet.
```

- `reversible` a flag that can enable/disable reverse traversal in the robot.

- `battery_system` information about the battery

> - `recharge_threshold` sets a value for minimum charge below which the robot cannot operate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `recharge_threshold` sets a value for minimum charge below which the robot must return to its charger.
```

> - `recharge_soc` the maximum level to which robots should be charged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `recharge_soc` the fraction of total battery capacity to which the robot should be charged.
```

> - `task_capabilities` the capabilities of the robot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `task_capabilities` the tasks that the robot can perform between `loop`, `delivery` and `clean`
```

> - `finishing_request` can be set to `park`, `charge` or `nothing`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `finishing_request` what the robot should do when it finishes its task, can be set to `park`, `charge` or `nothing`
```

> - `robots` information about all the types of robots in this case there is only one robot i.e. delivery bot

Reviewer: Suggest to use a config.yaml that has multiple robots such as [this](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos/config/office/tinyRobot_config.yaml) for better demonstration.
```suggestion
- `robots` information about individual fleet robots
```

Reviewer: @thedevmanek Could you change the `config.yaml` file used to the one linked in the above comment? So that users can understand how multiple robots are configured. This way you won't need to modify the robot name below.

Author: Done

> - `tinyRobot1` will have all the information required by the bot.

Reviewer: Please make sure that the robot name matches the one used in the code you referenced.
```suggestion
- `tinyRobot1` name of the robot.
```

Reviewer: @thedevmanek Hello, do note that the robot name is still different from the one referenced in the code.

- `max_delay` seconds before interruption occurs and replanning happens

> - `robot_state_update_frequency` how frequently should robot update the fleet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `robot_state_update_frequency` how frequently should the robot update the fleet
```

> - `map_name` name of the map
> 
> - `waypoint` target location
> 
> - `orientation` orientation in radians

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start` specify the starting map name, initial waypoint (x, y) and orientation (in radians) of the robot
```

> - `charger` location of the charger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `charger` waypoint name of the robot's charging point
```

> - `reference_coordinates` The robot and the RMF may use different coordinate system the `reference_coordinates` help in correcting them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `reference_coordinates` if the fleet robots are not operating in the same coordinate system as RMF, you can provide two sets of (x, y) coordinates that correspond to the same locations in each system. This helps with estimating coordinate transformations from one frame to another. A minimum of 4 matching waypoints is recommended. Note: this is not being implemented in `rmf_demos_fleet_adapter` as the demos robots and RMF are using the same coordinate system. 
```

## RobotClientAPI.py 

> Users can start by filling in the appropriate API inside [`RobotClientAPI.py`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L28), which will be used by the `RobotCommandHandle` to make calls to the fleet robots. For example, if your robot uses REST API to interface with the fleet adapter, you will need to make HTTP request calls to the appropriate endpoints within these functions.

Reviewer: Link to the template's RobotClientAPI instead. Else it might be confusing about which parts of the code they should replace. 
```suggestion
Users can fill in the appropriate API inside [`RobotClientAPI.py`](https://github.com/open-rmf/fleet_adapter_template/blob/main/fleet_adapter_template/fleet_adapter_template/RobotClientAPI.py), which will be used by the `RobotCommandHandle` to make calls to the fleet robots. For example, if your robot uses REST API to interface with the fleet adapter, you will need to make HTTP request calls to the appropriate endpoints within these functions.
```

  
  

```python

import requests
from urllib.error import HTTPError

class RobotAPI:
    # The constructor below accepts parameters typically required to submit
    # http requests. Users should modify the constructor as per the
    # requirements of their robot's API
    def __init__(self, prefix: str, user: str, password: str):
        self.prefix = prefix
        self.user = user
        self.password = password
        self.timeout = 5.0
        self.debug = False

```

User must initialize all the essential parameters in the class constructor required for API calls. Extra fields can be added to the constructor if need be
  

```python

    def check_connection(self):
        ''' Return True if connection to the robot API server is successful'''
        if self.data() is None:
            return False
        return True

```

  

> [`check_connection`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L39) will check if the robot is responding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`check_connection`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L39) will check if connection to the robot was successful
```

  

```python

    def position(self, robot_name: str):
        ''' Return [x, y, theta] expressed in the robot's coordinate frame or
            None if any errors are encountered'''
        if robot_name is not None:
            url = self.prefix +\
                f'/open-rmf/rmf_demos_fm/status/?robot_name={robot_name}'
        else:
            url = self.prefix + f'/open-rmf/rmf_demos_fm/status'
        try:
            response = requests.get(url, self.timeout)
            response.raise_for_status()
            data = response.json()
            if self.debug:
                print(f'Response: {data}')
            if not data['success']:
                return None
            x = data['data']['position']['x']
            y = data['data']['position']['y']
            angle = data['data']['position']['yaw']
            return [x, y, angle]
        except HTTPError as http_err:
            print(f'HTTP error: {http_err}')
        except Exception as err:
            print(f'Other error: {err}')
        return None

```

> [`position`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L45) function does the job returning the position of the robot in following format in robot's coordinate frame
> 
> `[x, y, theta]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`position`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L45) function returns the `[x, y, theta]` position of the robot in its coordinate frame
```

        data = {'task': process, 'map_name': map_name}
        try:
            response = requests.post(url, timeout=self.timeout, json=data)
            response.raise_for_status()
            if self.debug:
                print(f'Response: {response.json()}')
            return response.json()['success']
        except HTTPError as http_err:
            print(f'HTTP error: {http_err}')
        except Exception as err:
            print(f'Other error: {err}')
        return False

    def stop(self, robot_name: str):
        ''' Command the robot to stop.
            Return True if robot has successfully stopped. Else False'''
        url = self.prefix +\
            f'/open-rmf/rmf_demos_fm/stop_robot?robot_name={robot_name}'
        try:
            response = requests.get(url, self.timeout)
            response.raise_for_status()
            if self.debug:
                print(f'Response: {response.json()}')
            return response.json()['success']
        except HTTPError as http_err:
            print(f'HTTP error: {http_err}')
        except Exception as err:
            print(f'Other error: {err}')
        return False

```

> [`start_process`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L99) function will send a POST request to the robot and will ask it to perform the task for example load/unload for delivery bot.[`stop`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L123) command will simply check if the robot has stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`start_process`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L99) sends a POST request to the robot asking it to perform a task. [`stop`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L123) command tells the robot to stop moving.
```

            destination'''
        response = self.data(robot_name)
        if response is not None:
            return response['data']['destination_arrival_duration']
        else:
            return 0.0

    def navigation_completed(self, robot_name: str):
        ''' Return True if the robot has successfully completed its previous
            navigation request. Else False.'''
        response = self.data(robot_name)
        if response is not None and response.get('data') is not None:
            return response['data']['completed_request']
        else:
            return False

    def process_completed(self, robot_name: str):
        ''' Return True if the robot has successfully completed its previous
            process request. Else False.'''
        return self.navigation_completed(robot_name)
        
    def battery_soc(self, robot_name: str):
        ''' Return the state of charge of the robot as a value between 0.0
            and 1.0. Else return None if any errors are encountered'''
        response = self.data(robot_name)
        if response is not None:
            return response['data']['battery']/100.0
        else:
            return None

```

> - `navigation_remaining_duration` will return remaining duration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `navigation_remaining_duration` will return the remaining duration for the robot to complete its current navigation
```

- `process_completed` checks if the robot has completed its navigation using the `navigation_completed` function.

- `battery_soc` will return battery status between 0 and 1.0

```python

  def data(self, robot_name=None):
        if robot_name is None:
            url = self.prefix + f'/open-rmf/rmf_demos_fm/status/'
        else:
            url = self.prefix +\
                f'/open-rmf/rmf_demos_fm/status?robot_name={robot_name}'
        try:
            response = requests.get(url, timeout=self.timeout)
            response.raise_for_status()
            if self.debug:
                print(f'Response: {response.json()}')
            return response.json()
        except HTTPError as http_err:
            print(f'HTTP error: {http_err}')
        except Exception as err:
            print(f'Other error: {err}')
        return None

```

> [`data`](https://github.com/open-rmf/rmf_demos/blob/main/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/rmf_demos_fleet_adapter/RobotClientAPI.py#L172) function checks if the robot responds to the request. If the robot responds, the response is logged on the console for debugging purpose and returns the response.

Reviewer: The function `data()` is not necessary for this tutorial, ok to remove. This was an application-specific function added to `rmf_demos_fleet_adapter`'s RobotClientAPI

Author: Done thank you

> # Fleet Adapter Tutorial(Python)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Fleet Adapter Tutorial (Python)
```

- `robots` information about individual fleet robots

> - `tinyRobot1,tinyRobot2` name of the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `tinyRobot1`, `tinyRobot2` name of the robot.
```
